add documentation for MS Graph plugin (#130703)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/elasticsearch-plugins/ms-graph-authz-configure-azure.md

---
mapped_pages:
 - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/plugins/current/ms-graph-authz-configure-azure.html
---

# Configure Azure [configure-azure]

To make API calls to Microsoft Graph, Elasticsearch requires Azure credentials with the correct permissions.

## Create a custom Azure Application

> 1) Log in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and go to Microsoft Entra ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) Log in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) and go to Microsoft Entra ID.
```

> 2) Click "Enterprise applications" and then "New application" to register a new application.
> 3) Click "Create your own application", provide a name, and select the "Integrate any other application you don’t find in the gallery" option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) to register a new application, click **Enterprise applications** > **New application**.
3) Click **Create your own application**, provide a name, and select the **Integrate any other application you don’t find in the gallery** option.
```

:::{image} ./images/ms-graph-authz/01-create-enterprise-application.png
:alt: "create your own application" page
:::

## Configure the custom Application

1) In the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com), go to Microsoft Entra ID.

> 2) Under “App registrations”, then the “All applications” tab, find the application created in the previous section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2) Under **App registrations**, select the the **All applications** tab, and then find the application created in the previous section.
```

    :::{image} ./images/ms-graph-authz/02-find-app-registration.png
    :alt: find your app registration
    :::

> 3) Take note of the Application (client) ID and Tenant ID shown here - these will be needed to configure Elasticsearch later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3) Take note of the **Application (client) ID** and **Tenant ID**. These will be needed to configure Elasticsearch later.
```

    :::{image} ./images/ms-graph-authz/03-get-application-id.png
    :alt: get your application ID
    :::

> 4) Under Manage > Certificates & secrets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4) Under **Manage** > **Certificates & secrets**, do the following:
```

>    - Create a new client secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Create a new client secret.
```

>    - Take note of the Value - this is needed later, and is only shown once

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Take note of you new client secret's **Value**. This is needed later, and is only displayed once.
```

     :::{image} ./images/ms-graph-authz/04-create-client-secret.png
     :alt: get your client secret
     :::

> 5) Under Manage > API permissions
>    - Go to “Add a permission”
>    - Choose “Microsoft Graph”
>    - Choose “Application permissions”
>    - Select “Directory.ReadWrite.All, Group.ReadWrite.All, User.Read.All”
>    - Note that an Azure Admin will need to approve these permissions before the credentials can be used
>      :::{image} ./images/ms-graph-authz/05-configure-api-permissions.png
>      :alt: configure api permissions
>      :::

Reviewer: ordered procedures of more than two items need a numbered list

```suggestion
5) Under **Manage** > **API permissions**, do the following:
   1. Go to **Add a permission**.
   2. Choose **Microsoft Graph**.
   3. Choose **Application permissions**.
   4. Select the following permissions: `Directory.ReadWrite.All`, `Group.ReadWrite.All`, and `User.Read.All`.
   
   Note that an Azure Admin will need to approve these permissions before the credentials can be used
     :::{image} ./images/ms-graph-authz/05-configure-api-permissions.png
     :alt: configure API permissions
     :::
```
